She glanced at Subaru while leading the little girl away.
After watching them go back to the dragon carriage, Julius spoke up.
“Those two are quite charming together.”
“They look like the best of buds, right? Just a little over a year ago, they
couldn’t have been more different.”
“It’s hard to believe…in a single year? If you were involved, I suppose
it’s possible.”
Subaru scratched his cheek as Julius looked at him, a twinkle in his eye.
There was no denying that Subaru’s presence was a part of it, but he felt
acknowledging that fact would just come off as self-centered, so he quickly
changed the subject.
“So about what you were saying before.”
“You mean about my family?”
“Right. Emilia is a bit airheaded, and Beako was considerate enough not
to say anything, but talking about the past in a situation like this is…”
“I know. I’m sorry if it added another burden.”
Interrupting Subaru as he struggled to get the words out, Julius slowly
shook his head. Seeing the way he was acting, Subaru grimaced internally,
like he had bitten into something especially bitter.
Due to the Archbishop of Gluttony’s power, the memory of Julius—
Julius’s name itself—had been erased from the world. The very fact that he
existed was torn from the minds of everyone who ever knew him.
It was the third way this affliction manifested, similar to and yet different
from Crusch, who had lost her own memories, and Rem, who had been
forgotten by everyone and had fallen into a deep slumber, lost in memory.
Subaru was painfully familiar with that feeling of despair that came with
being isolated from the rest of the world.
When Subaru died and time rewound, he always returned with memories
of a world that no one else could ever know about. He lost the bonds that he
had painstakingly built more than a few times.
Even his friends at Roswaal Manor had forgotten him before.
“It’s hard to relax with you staring at me like that, Subaru. If you have
something to say, then why not just come out and say it?”
“You’re…tch, you’re a real piece of work, you know that?”
Subaru looked away.
One time I show a genuine bit of concern for him, this is what I get.
That’
s the “finest knight” for you.
When Subaru had found himself in a similar situation, recovering all by
himself had been a hopeless task. That was precisely why he understood just
how amazing Julius was to have managed it alone.
But it pissed him off to admit it, so he just snorted dismissively.
“The only thing I want to do is register a complaint. Don’t go bringing up
stuff like that out of nowhere. It ruins the mood. And it’s not something you
should be telling me anyway.”
“That’s not true. It’s nothing particularly special. Reinhard and Ferris
know, and it is common knowledge among the other knights. Lady Anastasia
also knows, of course. Or I should say, she knew.”
“ ”
“It’s something that everyone knew. Which is probably why I wanted you
to know it, too. Other than myself, you’re the person in this world who knows
me best now.”
After saying that in a soft, tranquil voice, Julius stood up. Gently brushing
off his legs, the finest knight looked down at Subaru, who was still sitting
next to the fire.
“It’s about time for me to rest. What about you?”
“I… I’m going to watch the fire a little bit longer. It’s a safe road, but it’s
still better to have someone on lookout.”
“Understood. Then I’ll rest first.”
With those parting words and a quiet nod, Julius left the fire and returned
to the carriage.
Alone with his thoughts, Subaru stared at the flames and touched his right
leg—the scar of the wound he had received in Pristella, the black pattern that
wouldn’t disappear.
“…What was that…?”
It was soft, almost indignant.
He didn’t know whether he was talking about Julius or himself, but either
way, an odd feeling of annoyance had gotten caught up like a little bone
lodged in his throat.
“Agh, damn it. What am I, stupid? …Yeah, I guess I am…”
Scratching his head, he vented his annoyance. It wasn’t going to make
anything better, but he couldn’t bring himself to not say anything, either.
He glared at the fire when a voice called out.
“—No need to go blamin’ yourself so much, is there?”
It was an elegant, reserved voice coming from behind him. Subaru
stopped scratching his head. Slowly turning around, he saw a girl with her
hands clasped behind her back.
“It’s hard to tell what I should call you on the spur of the moment…”
“You can just call me Anastasia now and every other time, too. If you
don’t, it’ll be a problem for me.”
The first half of what she said had an entirely different tone from the
second half. Almost as if the person talking switched in the middle. Of
course, the voice itself was the same throughout.
But the rightful controller of that body was no longer actually in control.
“Foxidna…”
“I’m not particularly attached to my name, but I can’t deny that I feel a
little bit of resistance at being called that, Natsuki.”
The woman whose pale blue-green eyes were squinting at him was
Anastasia Hoshin. Or at least, the body belonged to the royal candidate.
However, someone else was inside. Something else.
At present, her body was being occupied by the white fox scarf wrapped
around her neck—the man-made spirit Echidna in disguise.
It was like a bad joke. An artificial spirit with the same name as the Witch
of Greed was joining Subaru and company on their journey, all while
continuing to deny that she was said witch.
Her presence was headache-inducing.
“I wish you wouldn’t be so suspicious of me. I’ve explained before that
this situation isn’t what I wanted, either. I even took the job of acting as your
guide on this dangerous trip.”
What she said was true. The success of their journey depended on her
guidance. Without it, they had no hope of surviving the hell that forced even
Reinhard into submission.
Despite acknowledging that, Subaru couldn’t get over the fact that she
shared a certain witch’s name.
“Even so, my stance is that your creator is never to be trusted. Believe
me, I’d trust you if I could. It would be easier that way.”
“Dearie me. My creator who I can’t even remember must have really
done a number on you.”
“ ”
“Anyway, don’t get so upset. It’s scary.”
When he narrowed his eyes suspiciously, Foxidna flashed Anastasia’s
usual expression and stuck out her tongue before turning away. She started
heading back to the carriage, probably planning to sleep.
“You shouldn’t burn the midnight oil so much, either, Natsuki. Especially
considering how much you tend to worry about every little thing.”
“…Says one of the things that I happen to be worrying about.”
“Forget I brought it up then.” Foxidna shrugged at his sarcastic response
and finally left.
But Subaru really did need to change gears. He was going to accidentally
call her Foxidna at some point. He needed to get in the habit of referring to
her as Anastasia.
“Now I’ve got even more things to hide. This is the exact wrong way for
things to be going.”
Subaru poured water on the campfire and put it out. Returning to the
carriage pulled over to the side of the road, he started to lie down on the seat
that was his bed.
Emilia and everyone else were already sleeping inside, so he took care to
stay quiet as he lay down.
“You look like you have even more things on your mind now.”
“…Were you awake?”
Just as he lay down on the seat, a voice called out to him. Opening his
eyes, he saw Beatrice with her hair down standing next to the seat.
“There’s no hiding anything from you, is there?”
“That’s a bad habit of yours. You should share your concerns with Betty.
Betty is far more attentive than you are.”
“…Yeah, that’s right. C’mere.”
Squeezing into the seat to make some room, she slipped in close so they
could nuzzle together.
Beatrice was the only one who knew the depth of Subaru’s worries. She
was also the only other person on the trip who knew that Anastasia and
Foxidna had changed places.
The problem was Echidna—who he had been calling Foxidna to
distinguish her from the witch. She was an artificial spirit like Beatrice, and
she swore that she had no intention of harming Anastasia. Talking about it to
others was bound to cause confusion and maybe alarm. But Subaru also
needed to stay on guard. So as a compromise, he had shared the secret with
Beatrice.
Considering Beatrice’s complicated feelings toward Echidna, he
would’ve preferred to not involve her with another person who shared that
name, but…
“Don’t worry about pointless things. You should just be yourself and ask
for help from any and everyone. If nothing else, I praise your judgment in
coming to Betty first.”
Good at listening and a charmer. Subaru smiled awkwardly at that
compliment. All he could do was be grateful.
“I can’t just keep worrying forever. Tomorrow we’re finally gonna visit
home.”
Patting Beatrice’s head, he braced himself for the first checkpoint on their
journey.
Their ultimate goal was to reach the Sage’s watchtower, but their party
was stopping by Roswaal Manor to prepare for the next leg of the trip and to
report back on everything that had happened. However, there was another
reason for passing through there—
“It ain’t no regular pit stop…”
In the grand scheme of things, it was a trivial, almost laughable reason.
But for a small person like Subaru Natsuki, it was something that contained a
powerful possibility.
This was an important detour to reunite with someone dear to him on the
long, long road he had to travel before he could finally meet her again in the
truest sense.
CHAPTER 1
A REASON TO BRING YOU
1
The trip from Pristella to Roswaal Manor was approximately ten days.
Going to the Water Gate City took about the same time, so it had been
nearly a month since they first set off. There had not been any jobs that kept
them away from the mansion that long before, so it was actually a bit
emotional for Subaru.
“Subaru!”
“Oh, Petra—gh, whoa!”
Getting down from the carriage, Subaru thanked the driver as a girl in a
maid outfit came running from the mansion and wrapped him in a flying hug.
Struggling to catch her, he breathed a sigh of relief as he patted her on the
head.
“Don’t scare me like that, Petra. It’s been a month, but I see you’re in a
good mood.”
“It’s been so long. I’m just really happy… I’m sure it was difficult for
you, Master Subaru. I was worried after the letter came. You aren’t just
pretending to be okay when you’re actually hurt, are you?”
“That tickles.”
Petra’s reddish-brown hair bobbed this way and that as she checked
Subaru’s body for injuries. Subaru grimaced a bit as everyone else left the
carriage, too.
“Come on, Petra. It’s time for work, before Ram gets mad at you.”
“…Okaaay. Tell me everything later.”
With that, Petra pulled away, but that look of suspicion never left her
eyes. She didn’t seem to trust Subaru at all. To be fair, their original plan
was to find some magic crystals, and instead they ended up fighting the Witch
Cult in a massive battle that swept through the entire city.
Even if Subaru pleaded his innocence in the matter, it wasn’t surprising
that she refused to believe him. While he was thinking that, Petra greeted the
guests with a practiced speech.
“Welcome, honored guests. I am a maid serving the Roswaal Manor, Petra
Leyte. Please allow me to show you into the mansion after your long
journey.”
Julius was helping Anastasia down from the carriage, and they both
looked impressed by the gracefulness of her introduction. Emilia and
Beatrice looked almost proud of her.
“Well now, what a dignified little darling. I almost want to hire her
myself.”
“Indeed. It’s almost like an entirely different person from the girl who
leaped onto Subaru.”
“…Apologies for that shameful display.”
Petra’s cheeks reddened as Anastasia and Julius smiled. Observing that
reaction, Julius nodded.
“I see. I understand why people have taken to calling you the little girl
tamer.”
“Just to be clear, Petra isn’t that young, and even if I let that
misclassification slide, Beako is the only one, so don’t get the wrong idea.”
“Betty doesn’t just listen to everything Subaru says. No one has tamed
Betty.” Subaru met Julius’s banter with a biting response, only to be sharply
corrected by Beatrice.
“Besides, there’s not even that much difference
between Betty and Pet… Wait. P-Petra has grown a little, I suppose? And her
hair’s a bit longer, too…!”
“A full month has gone by, after all. I’m a growing girl. I’m getting taller,
and if I don’t cut my hair, of course it will get longer. But you’re still this
small.”
“H-how could this be…?!”
Beatrice was trembling as Petra smiled and hugged her. Enjoying
Beatrice’s pouting face, Petra changed topics.
“I should show you in before Ms. Ram gets upset…”
“—If you wanted to avoid that, you should have tried a little harder.”
“Eep!”
Petra’s face paled when a familiar voice came from behind her. A second
maid emerged from the mansion, making the younger maid shudder in fear—it
was Ram.
Her pink eyes pinned Petra in place for several long moments before she
slowly turned her gaze to Subaru and the others.
“Just when I was thinking your work had been improving and maybe you
deserved some acknowledgment… How disappointing.”
“I—I’m sorry… Um, but what was that about my work…?”
“Yes. I was going to say that you have gotten better at cooking and more
careful with cleaning and better at washing the laundry, and you get up earlier
than I do.”
“Maybe you should take a look at your own work!”
How much could a veteran maid be outdone by a girl who had been a
maid for barely a year? Even considering how fast Petra could pick up new
things, if the bar was that low, clearing it didn’t mean much.
Ram snorted at Subaru’s outburst.
“What’s the point of doubting oneself? I have nothing but self-confidence
and the highest of expectations for myself.”
“That is the one thing about you that I really, truly respect.”
Subaru was astonished at how bluntly she announced that.
Emilia tapped Petra’s frozen shoulder as she said, “Thanks for coming to
meet us, Ram. Has anything happened in the manor while we were away?”
“There have been no issues. I am sure you all have much news to share.
Did Garf and Otto die?”
“Don’t go killing them off! What a thing to say with such a serious look on
your face!”
“It’s easy to see through a man with no composure. In your case, it’s so
clear that there’s practically a hole and your insides are leaking out, so you
should be careful. Being shallow and empty is just the worst.”
“You’re gonna seriously hurt my feelings, so could you stop? And
besides, you got our letter, right?”
Ram shrugged as Subaru whispered to her.
They had sent a letter in advance of their departure from Pristella. If the
contents had been shared with Ram, then she should know why they had come
back to the manor.
Ram held up her finger.
“Relax. I heard the story from Master Roswaal. You have business with
the sleeping beauty and the mansion’s jail. Though…” Ram’s eyes narrowed
mysteriously.
“The preparations for both were Frederica’s and Petra’s jobs,
not mine.”
“Why do you look smug about that?”
Even after a month apart, Ram was the same as ever.
2
“Weeell, now. Welcome baaack. I’m glad for your safe retuuurn.”
Roswaal greeted the group while sitting on the couch in the parlor.
Subaru and Emilia couldn’t help glancing at each other when they saw his
full-faced smile in clown makeup.
“…Emilia-tan, you didn’t write anything strange in the letter, did you?”
“Um, I don’t think so, but…maybe it’s because you did something that
made him happy? I mean, you and Roswaal do have those secret
conversations from time to time…”
“Me? I’d rather spend my time and money on you and Beako and Petra
and Frederica and Patlash and, I guess, Ram.”
“That could be considered quite a lot of women’s names, I suppose.”
“It’d be embarrassing to show that sort of daily gratitude to Otto and
Garfield, since they’re fellow guys, okay?!” Beatrice looked exasperated as
Subaru put his hand on her head and joined Emilia in confusion. Incidentally,
the reason he didn’t include Rem was to avoid upsetting the others, but he
still regretted leaving her out. He quickly put that thought out of his mind to
ask a pointed question.
“So judging from that smile, you must be plotting
some new nasty tricks. Am I right, Roswaal?”
“What a veeeexing reaction. All I’ve done is show how haaappy I am to
see you are all safe and sound after worrying about your safety. You could
hardly find any problem with that, yeees?”
Roswaal closed one eye, staring at Subaru with the blue eye.
“This past year, I’ve had seeeveral changes of heart. My cooperation is
something to be celebrated as far as Lady Emilia is concerned, no?”
“Um, I guess so. Yes. Thank you, Roswaal.”
Emilia accepted Roswaal’s brazen appeal with her open-minded
generosity. Seeing how Roswaal smiled and waved his hand breezily, Subaru
couldn’t help wondering exactly how trustworthy this man really was.
“It’s a waste of time trying to grasp what he is thinking. That oddness of
his that makes him act the way he does is even more immeasurable than
yours, Subaru.”
“That was a bit vague.”
Beatrice’s ambiguous assessment almost made her sound like a rambling
old lady. Taking her hand, he stepped into the parlor together with Emilia.
He was suspicious of Roswaal being in such a good mood. At the same
time, it seemed like a safe bet that Roswaal was genuinely pleased to see
them return. Having lost his tome of wisdom, they were crucial for achieving
his goal.
“In that case, it would be helpful if you were a little bit more genuinely
cooperative.”
“You will accomplish what you set out to do with or without my aid. And
because I have faith in your abilities, I am exerting myself in the arenas
where your strength cannot reach. A truly fair relationship, wouldn’t you
saaay?”
“Yeah, it seriously gives that hint of RPG spice: a helper character who’s
not actually available to help most of the tiiime.”
It was a standard trope of games that characters who were overpowered
would only ever join the party for very specific fights.
As it so happened, Roswaal always watched from the sidelines as Subaru
was pushed to the absolute limit so he could obtain proof that Subaru’s
ability to return by death could change fate itself.
He was a shrewd one and someone Subaru couldn’t afford to let his guard
down around. That assessment was still unchanged.
“Soooo, isn’t it about time you introduced us?”
“Ah, sorry, sorry. Roswaal, we’ve brought some guests. Can you make
some room?”
“So I’ve heeeard. Still, though, this is quite the intriiiiguing assembly.”
Roswaal stood up and gestured for the guests standing at the entrance to
the room to take a seat on the sofa while he shifted to a nearby armchair.
“Welcome. You’ve come a long way. We haven’t been able to speak like
this siiiince the ceremony.”
“Indeed, and it’s not like we got a chance to reeeally talk much there,
either, so I suppose this marks the first time.”
Anastasia smiled and met Roswaal’s diplomatic greeting with an equally
diplomatic response.
The ceremony they were referring to was the one held at the royal palace
to honor Emilia, Crusch, Anastasia, and all their followers for their work in
slaying the white whale.
It happened after the events in the Sanctuary, with representatives from all
three factions present.
He
’
s got some balls to show up for that with a straight face after
everything he did.
Either way, this was the first time he and Anastasia had met face-to-face
since then, and their greetings included a bit of probing. The conversation
then shifted to the main topic: reporting what had occurred in Pristella.
“I’ve read your letter. Otto and Garfiel are recovering from their injuries,
but even so, it sounds like the cost of dealing with the Witch Cult was fairly
low?”
“Yes, thanks to the reeeally hard work the two of them put in… Actually,
it’s also thanks to everyone who was in the town. Subaru and Liliana, too.”
“Why did you mention me and Liliana all of a sudden?”
Probably because they were in the non-combatant category. Not because
they were particularly similar.
“Well, setting aside Subaru’s self-consciousness… Lady Anastasia, it
was you who invited Lady Emilia to Pristella. Do you have any thoughts
regarding that?”
“I regret the incident. If you asked me to apologize, I’m prepared to offer
a proper apology. However…”
“However, Lady Emilia has already refused anything more than that, I’m
suuure.”
“After all, it’s the Witch Cult who were acting up, so they’re the ones in
the wrong. Anastasia doesn’t have any responsibility for what they did. And
we still managed to accomplish what we went there to do.”
Emilia touched the pendant around her neck when Roswaal glanced at her.
A gleaming magic crystal sat there, gathering strength for the great spirit that
was still deep in slumber.
The reason they had gone to Pristella was to secure a magic crystal that
could help Puck. As far as that specific goal was concerned, the trip to
Pristella had been a success.
“Also, the fact that we happened to be there at the right time might be why
we were able to defeat the Witch Cult. If so, then that would be to
Anastasia’s credit—”
“That’s obviously far beyond what I was considering, so just leave it at
that.”
Anastasia grimaced a bit at Emilia’s forward-thinking perspective and
stopped her.
“Really?”
For some reason, Anastasia looked relieved as Emilia cocked her head.
Of course, that whole line was just a preemptive push from Roswaal.
In fact, there was a decent chance the Witch Cult’s attack on Pristella was
primarily aimed at Emilia’s faction. Roswaal was perfectly aware of that
since it had been mentioned in the letter.
“The actions of the Witch Cult are their own. We can all agree that they’re
the worst and move on. The other factions have accepted that, and it’s not as
if there wasn’t anything gained in the fighting, either.”
“Killing one archbishop and capturing another. It is indeed a magnificent
outcome. However, those cultists have no sense of working together or
solidarity. Even if there is only one left, the danger remains unchanged.”
“I can’t argue with that…”
The Witch Cult was more a place for deviants to gather than any sort of
formal organization. Because of that, it wasn’t like Gluttony or Lust would
stop their atrocities just because Greed and Wrath had been defeated.
“Anyway, we’ve got an idea that might take care of that.”
“And that is why you are setting out for the Sage’s watchtower. That is
quite the perilous path. Do you have any reason to believe you will
succeed?”
Roswaal was one of the leaders of the kingdom. It went without saying
that he was aware that Reinhard had already attempted to cross the Auguria
Dunes before only to fail.
Between the hallucinogenic miasma and the countless dangerous demon
beasts, it was only natural to question how they would make it past those
barriers. Subaru simply glanced at the trump card they had prepared for that
issue.
“That is where I come in. Fortunately, I happen to know a secret path that
will bring us to the Sage’s watchtower. That is how we can succeed.”
“Even if you ask me to just trust yoooou… Something like a secret route
through the dunes would surely fetch quite the price from any number of
buyers. Why is it that you and you alone happen to be in possession of it?”
“I’m a merchant, so of course money is important. But there are some
things money can’t buy. And this here is one of those things. Can we agree on
that?”
Anastasia, or rather Foxidna, was matching Roswaal point for point.
Despite the fact that she was a fake pretending to be Anastasia, her words
possessed a mysterious strength, a strength that even overawed Subaru, who
knew the truth.
Facing down the full force of Anastasia’s gaze, Roswaal closed an eye.
“I see now how someone so young can run such a large company. It is
quite a challenge to outplay someone so worldly with words alone. I imagine
Lady Emilia has already agreed to your proposal?”
“I’m sorry for deciding something like this on my own.”
“Not sorry enough to stop making such rash decisions without consulting
others. But that is fine. You are one who chooses to take the thorny path. And
that path is one he will surely resolve himself to follow as well.”
Roswaal seemed unenthused by Anastasia’s proposal, but that was where
his interest lay in the end. If Emilia chose the most difficult path, then the
hurdles Subaru would have to clear would naturally be even higher. For
Roswaal, that was the hope that had replaced his tome of wisdom.
“Basically, we’ll clear the whatever-it’s-called desert with Anastasia’s
guidance. That’s our decision.”
“The Auguria Dunes. Just learn the name already.”
Julius interjected with a sigh as Subaru relied on his vague memory to
make a bold statement. The knight was sitting beside Anastasia and had
listened in silence thus far, but he turned his intellectual gaze on Roswaal.
“I imagine you might be quite concerned, Marquis Mathers. However,
there are many people in the city of Pristella who are currently suffering
physically and mentally from the depredations of the Witch Cult. I would ask
that you please allow us to undertake this task, that our actions here might
lead to their being saved.”
“What an elegant bearing. Considering you are not in my memories, I
suppose you are one of those victims, yeees?”
“ ”
The fact that he didn’t know Julius at all was enough for Roswaal to grasp
the situation. Julius averted his eyes ever so slightly as Roswaal propped his
cheek up.
“The unease of being forgotten by people due to Greed’s authority—of
being left behind by the rest of the world. Seeking a faint hope for your own
sake… You needn’t adorn it with platitudes about helping others, you
knooow?”
“—Ngh. I would never act on the basis of such mean self-interest.”
“I’m nooot criticizing you. It’s only natural. People always become more
desperate for their own sake than they do for others. There’s no need to deny
the sense of satisfaction and accomplishment, or even the sense of superiority
that comes from saving others along the way while saving yourself.”
Julius’s cheeks tensed as Roswaal’s jester’s grin deepened.
“All the more so when the odds are quite high that others will also be
saved if you succeed in saving yourself. You have a just cause, and you are
taking action. There’s no need to feel such paaangs of conscience.”
“I…”
“—That’s enough, don’t you think, Marquis Mathers?”
Stopping Julius as he struggled with how to respond, Anastasia faced
Roswaal instead. She was smiling elegantly and cocked her head charmingly.
“Honestly, I don’t remember, either. But even so, he is apparently my
knight, and it’s not too pleasant to see him toyed with over something he can’t
help.”
“Even though the memories are gone, the lady and retainer relationship
remains…?”
“So it seems. I can’t say I totally understand it, either. But the time spent
with Julius while traveling here wasn’t so bad…and also…”
Anastasia pointed at the sofa across from her.
“And it’ll keep your faction from splitting apart, too, right?”
“—Well now, dear me.”
Roswaal shrugged at Anastasia’s point—in other words, at Subaru, who
was on the verge of exploding. It wasn’t shocking that Subaru was on the
verge of erupting in anger, but even Emilia and Beatrice were on edge.
Seeing that, Roswaal raised his hand as if in surrender.
“V eeeery well, I was in the wrong. I was simply pointing out that
perspective also exists.”
“You were just harassing him for the hell of it. Don’t screw with us.”
“From your attitude, it seems as if there is more than just a few days
shared between the two of yooou.”
Roswaal closed an eye, meeting Subaru’s sharp gaze with his yellow eye.
And then he licked his lips as if seeing straight through Subaru.
“Again, you are the oooonly one who remembers. Just like Rem.”
“No clue why, though.”
“That is proof you are special. You should take good caaaare of that.
There are many who cannot have that no matter how much they want it.”
The last part was murmured softly, just to himself, and didn’t reach
Subaru’s ears. Beatrice alone had a thoughtful look in her eyes.
With that exchange, Subaru let out a heavy sigh.
“The rest is like we mentioned in the letter. The manor’s prison and…”
“Rem. Quite the bold decision. Even though you aaaare so loath to bring
her up.”
“…There might be a way to wake her up. I’m gonna take my chances. It’s
only natural, right?”
“It’s surprising to choose her as the first subject for that potential method.
You like to pretend to be selfish, but you are actually terribly self-punishing.
Is there not somewhere in your heart or some corner of your mind telling you
that you have no right to be saved first?”
“ ”
Subaru fell silent as Roswaal hit the mark dead-on.
He had been worrying during the whole trip about whether to bring Rem
with them.
Not because he wanted to avoid waking her up but because if there was
any chance of waking her up, he wanted it to happen as soon as possible. But
that was different from Subaru Natsuki being saved.
In Pristella, there were lots of people other than Subaru experiencing the
same sort of suffering. So why did he get to be first before all of them?
That sense of guilt had been causing him to hesitate until the very last
moment, but—
“If that’s what you mean, then I talked to Subaru about that already, so it
isn’t a problem.”
“…That is even more surprising.” Emilia spoke up in Subaru’s stead
when he fell silent. Roswaal looked dubiously at her as she puffed out her
chest and then winked at her.
“It’s perhaps not for me to say this, but it would
be rather inconvenient for you if Rem was to awaken, wouldn’t it, Lady
Emilia? No matter how you look at it, Subaru has quite strong feelings
toward the girl. They might even rival his feelings for you…”
“Yes, that’s probably true. I imagine if Rem wakes up, Subaru will spend
all of his time with her for a while. He might even stop caring about me.”
“No, that’s not…”
Subaru could confidently say that wasn’t true. There was no way his
feelings toward Emilia would ever waver. But the fact that he cared for Rem
a great deal was not a lie, either. And Emilia was right. If Rem woke up, he
would undoubtedly devote a lot of time to her, making up for the year they
had lost.
But even so, Emilia had told him it was okay.
“If Subaru pays a lot of attention to her, then I’ll just have to work hard to
make him look at me again. It would be a problem if Subaru disappeared, so
no matter how cute Rem is or how special she is to him, I’ll convince him to
stay with me, too.”
“E-Emilia-tan?!”
“That’s my resolve and what I decided. No one will complain about
Subaru getting saved. So it’s okay. Let’s wake Rem up.”
Emilia put her weight behind Subaru’s decision.
Subaru gasped, and his knees trembled a bit at what sounded a lot like a
confession.
Emilia had said things that sounded affectionate any number of times
before. But even then, they were all still in the realm of just a sort of soft
attraction—
“Whether with me, with Rem, with Beatrice, with Petra and Patlash, or
Frederica and Ram, or even Otto and Garfiel! I want Subaru to be reeeally,
reeeally happy.”
“There was a land dragon and a couple guys mixed in there at the end.”
Subaru couldn’t help interjecting despite the mixture of embarrassment
and certain other emotions he was feeling.
But Beatrice, who was sitting next to him, jabbed him in the side. Looking
over, he noticed Beatrice had an indignant look on her face.
“After this long, Betty won’t complain about how fickle you are… But
always keep one hand open. That’s Betty’s special privilege.”
“You are ridiculously adorable…”
“Naturally. Betty’s cuteness rings out in every realm.”
Subaru couldn’t speak for the gods and goddesses who ruled the earth and
the heavens, but it certainly echoed loudly in his heart.
With Emilia and Beatrice giving him their full support, Subaru could
devote himself to waking up Rem without worry. There was no more doubt.
“Sorry for being so loved by everyone, Roswaal. Looks like we’ll be
taking Rem with us.”
“I’m quite surprised by all of you…but do as you please. In the first
place, I never intended to stop youuuu.”
“Then what was the point of asking that question?!”
“Just making sure you understand what it is you are doing, out of an
excess of thoughtfulness. I was aaalso rude to the nameless knight there.”
All the way to the end, Roswaal refused to let up on his teasing banter.
However, Julius shook his head and looked toward Subaru and Anastasia.
“No, my name is Julius Juukulius. At the moment, Subaru may be the only
person who remembers me, but I am a knight in the Kingdom of Lugunica’s
royal guard. I am not so immature that something like this would cause my
heart to waver.”
Saying that, he magnificently brushed off the nasty mage’s terrible
provocations.
“…You were a little bit shaky there, though.”
“Whose side are you on? It feels almost like I was just stabbed in the
back.”
Subaru and Julius did have a quiet little exchange among themselves at the
very end, though.
3
With the discussion over, they left the parlor.
“Well, I wonder if that makes me one of his little friends nooow? What do
you think?”
“…Spare Betty such disgusting statements. It sounds almost like you mean
it, which is a scary thought.”
“I’ve never been so inconstant as to press matters in this body, thooough.”
“You’ve been a woman, too. I suppose that’s enough for Betty to be on her
guard.”
Roswaal’s smile deepened as Beatrice remained composed while playing
with her hair. It was a habit she had picked up when she needed something to
do with her hands. That or it was a sign she was getting annoyed.
“That habit of yours neeeever changes. But it seems as if your feelings
have. I can’t quite bring myself to so easily wag my tail for someone else the
way you can. I’m jealous.”
“Compared to you, who could never touch Mother despite your single-
minded determination, Betty can actually hold Subaru’s hand, which is a
thousand times better. You won’t get a rise out of Betty.”
“Look at yooou. You’ve really grown quite resolute.”
Roswaal was sitting while Beatrice stood across from him, putting them
at eye level. Sparks started to fly, but suddenly, Roswaal’s expression
softened.
“He defeated an archbishop. That should be the second inside Subaru
now.”
“…There should be other candidates besides Subaru.”
“But none of them were as close as he was or overlapped. Save the
boring pretenses for someone else.”
“—Betty won’t let him do any more than this.”
There was a quiet resolve in her voice as she answered Roswaal.
“Betty belongs to Subaru, so Subaru will remain Subaru.”
She glared at Roswaal as she said that and then turned to the door.
She had stayed behind to discuss things, but she decided she should not
speak any further than that.
“Beatrice.”
Roswaal called out as she moved away.
She stopped but didn’t turn around.
“I want you to be happy. You are like a little sister to me. I care deeply
about you.”
“…That’s not the most appealing thought. And not as much as you care
about Mother, I suppose.”
“That’s love after all, iiisn’t it?”
Beatrice didn’t respond.
The sound of the door opening and then closing was all that broke the
silence.
After that, there was no more to say between Roswaal and Beatrice.
4
“Did your conversation with the master go well?”
“About the same as always. You can guess how it goes with him. I left
Beako back there as someone who could speak freely with him, so I imagine
he’ll reflect a little bit on what he’s done.”
“I see. The master can’t stand against Lady Beatrice after all.”
Frederica covered her mouth with her hand and smiled elegantly.
After finishing the discussion with Roswaal in the parlor, she had taken
over guiding Subaru and the others as they headed to the eastern wing of the
manor. With that, Subaru had reunited with all three of the manor’s maids.
The fierce-looking servant with beautiful, long blond hair and a neatly
arranged maid outfit gave Anastasia and Julius a picture-perfect greeting
before turning to Emilia.
“Was Garf of service to everyone during your trip? I gave him detailed
instructions before leaving, but I couldn’t help worrying that he might have
caused you some trouble.”
“You don’t need to worry. Garfiel worked reeeally hard during the trip.
He is behaving himself and recovering together with Otto right now…I think?
At least I hope he is. I did ask him to rest up.”
“I’m sorry that my foolish little brother has troubled you.”
Emilia couldn’t quite reassure Frederica, who apologized on behalf of
her family.
Ultimately, even though Petra, Ram, Roswaal, and Frederica were
concerned about Garfiel, there was no mistaking there had been some sort of
change in his state of mind while he was in Pristella.
He had been hurt and used that as a springboard for further growth. If
anything, it was the sort of development expected of a fifteen-year-old as far
as Subaru was concerned.
“It did seem like Garfiel had a lot going on…”
“? Was there something you wanted to mention, Master Subaru?”
“No, nothing from me. Honestly, it’s not really something I should be
talking about myself.”
Noticing Subaru’s meaningful gaze, Frederica questioned him, but he just
shrugged in response. Brushing off her question, he could imagine what might
be going through Garfiel’s mind.
There was a certain family that had caught Garfiel’s attention in Pristella
—especially a brother and sister with blond hair and green eyes that
resembled Frederica and Garfiel.
The connection between them and Garfiel surely also applied to
Frederica. But that was something for Garfiel to share with Frederica and
Ryuzu, the members of his family.
“I won’t say anything. Subaru Natsuki is just gonna walk away looking
cool.”
“Right, right, speaking of Garfiel, there were these children that he was
getting along reeeally well with in Pristella. Those kids and—”
“Emilia-tan, don’t make my monologue go to waste!”
Subaru frantically stopped Emilia before her natural airheadedness ruined
his attempt to act smooth. Frederica looked suspicious, but Julius required
her attention.
“Ms. Frederica, I regret interrupting your congenial conversation, but is
that the place up ahead?”
“Yes, sir. The manor prison, as Master Subaru has called it.”
“So the person in question is here, then? Hopefully the discussion will
proceed well.”
“It’s a bit of a coin flip, I’d say. Honestly, if we manage to get anything
even remotely useful, I’d call it a success.”
Julius seemed to be ruminating on something as Subaru scratched his
cheek and gave his best assessment of the situation.
Even though he had suggested it himself, Subaru wasn’t really expecting
much since there was no telling whether the person they came to see would
be willing to help.
“But she is pretty attached to you, so she should be willing to tell us a lot
of things, right?” Emilia asked.
“There’s no telling how much or how little that affection level will impact
the conversation, though… Ah, we’re here.” As Subaru reined in Emilia’s
optimism, the procession reached its destination. Standing in front of the
stairway leading underground, Anastasia furrowed her brow.
“Not exactly the most welcoming place I’ve ever seen.” At a glance, it
looked like any old average stairway leading to a basement, but Anastasia
was as impressive as usual and noticed the subtle change in atmosphere.
Foxes were canines, so maybe some smell tipped her off. Either way, the
aura that hung in the air didn’t actually have anything to do with smell.
“Is it
miasma? No, it seems different, but I can’t say it’s a pleasant feeling, either.”
“That is the aura released by the person being kept in the room there. I
will lead you in, so please watch your feet.”
Frederica took the lead going down the dark staircase that Anastasia was
peering into, and Subaru and the others quickly followed her underground.
Reaching the bottom, their footsteps rang louder on the stone flooring. The
cool underground air chilled their lungs as Frederica unlocked the sturdy
metal door at the end of the passage.
There was an almost palpable tension as the metal door creaked open—
“Woof, woof! I’m gonna eat youuu!”
“Kyaaah! Save me! Nooo!”
“Gah-ha-ha, plead all you want, but no one is coming to save you!”
A bright light shone from inside the room, and they could hear a high-
pitched voice.
There was a single small figure inside the room, a girl with her back to
the door. She had several stuffed animals arrayed around her and was playing
with dolls in either hand.
She was doing different voices, playing all the various parts in her little
story.
“No, I’m sure he’ll come. The prince promi… Hmm?”
The girl shot up from her seat, gripping the little girl doll as she sensed
something was off.
Then she slowly, nervously turned around and saw Subaru and everyone
else standing at the entrance to the room. Her big, round eyes widened, and
her mouth dropped open. Her deep-blue hair hung down, and her simple,
adorable face gradually reddened.
“H-hey. It’s been a while. How have you been doing?”
Subaru decided to act as if nothing happened and raised his hand to greet
her. He glanced toward everyone else, trying to urge them not to say anything.
But—("there some photo btw")
“Oh, you’re so cute, Meili. I used to do the same sort of thing with
snowmen…”
“Y-you big meanies! Argh! Whatever!”
Naturally, because Emilia didn’t get the message and immediately said
what first came to mind, the little girl imploded.